PROJ-162 : uppaal models (#92)
SW805F20/report: sections/sprint-4/updated-uppaal.tex

Additionally, the previous model focused mostly on the flow of the program and did not properly take the network part of the system into account.
In this new model, the system will consist of four parts: The host, which is meant to represent the Python program that the game facilitator uses, an arbitrary number of clients who have connected to the game, and the UDP and TCP connection between those.

We created a simplified model to get an overview of the system and a more extensive model that also models the TCP communication between the host and the client.

> First of we are going to look at the simplified model to get a general overview of the flow of the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplified model will be described first in order to get a general overview of the flow of the system.
```

> There are two templates in the simplified model which are Host and Client.

Reviewer: skal Host og Client ikke stå i sådan en \upp ting?

\subsection*{Simplified host}
The simplified host can be seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-simplified-host}. 

> The \uppProc{Host} starts in the \uppLoc{Lobby} and waits for all Clients to connect.

Reviewer: kunne godt tænke mig Clients kom ind i en elelr anden \upp eller bare stod med småt

Everytime a \uppProc{Client} connects the \uppProc{Host} transitions to  \uppLoc{Connecting}.
It then either acknowledges the connection or waits for the  \uppProc{Client} to timeout.

> When the connection is acknowledged it transitions to \uppLoc{Connected} and then sends configurations to the \uppProc{Client} and transitions back to the lobby.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the connection is acknowledged it transitions to \uppLoc{Connected}, sends configurations to the \uppProc{Client} and transitions back to the lobby.
```

> When all clients have connected the \uppProc{Host} transitions to \uppLoc{InGame} and signals to all of the connected Clients that the game is starting through \uppOut{TCP_start_game}.

Reviewer: samme ting med Clients her - \upp eller småt

> InGame the \uppProc{Host} can either send tag position through UDP, send goal postion and goal scored through TCP or end the game through TCP and transition back to \uppLoc{Lobby}.

Reviewer: InGame skal også være \upp eller skrives som In game

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/simplified-host.png}

>     \caption{The Host template of the simplified \uppaal model.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \caption{The host template of the simplified \uppaal model.}
```

    \label{fig:sprint4-uppaal-simplified-host}
\end{figure}

\subsection*{Simplified Client}

> The simplified Client can be seen on  \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-simplified-client}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplified client can be seen on  \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-simplified-client}.
```

> The \uppProc{Client} starts in the \uppLoc{Initial} it then tries to connect and transitions to \uppLoc{Connecting}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \uppProc{Client} starts in the \uppLoc{Initial} location, it then tries to connect and transitions to \uppLoc{Connecting}.
```

> While in \uppLoc{Connecting} it waits for a acknowledgement from the \uppProc{Host}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While in \uppLoc{Connecting} it waits for an acknowledgement from the \uppProc{Host}.
```

> If it does not recieve a acknowledgement before the timeout limit it outputs a \uppOut{TCP_timeout} and transitions back to \uppLoc{Initial}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it does not receive an acknowledgement before the timeout limit it outputs a \uppOut{TCP_timeout} and transitions back to \uppLoc{Initial}.
```

> Otherwise if the \uppProc{Client} recieves a acknowledgement from the \uppProc{Host} it transitions to \uppLoc{Setup} and waits for the \uppProc{Host} to send configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, if the \uppProc{Client} receives an acknowledgement from the \uppProc{Host}, it transitions to \uppLoc{Setup} and waits for the \uppProc{Host} to send configuration data.
```

> When the \uppProc{Client} recieves the configurations it transitions to \uppLoc{Lobby} and then waits for the game to start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the \uppProc{Client} receives the configuration data it transitions to \uppLoc{Lobby} and then waits for the game to start.
```

When the \uppProc{Host} starts the game, all \uppProc{Clients} that are in \uppLoc{Lobby} transition to \uppLoc{InGame}.

> From there the \uppProc{Client} waits for the \uppProc{Host} to send messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From there, the \uppProc{Client} waits for the \uppProc{Host} to send messages.
```

> It can recieve a TCP message or a UDP message which makes it transition to InGame again or it can recieve a message that the game has ended which makes it transition to \uppLoc{Initial}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can receive either a TCP or UDP message, which makes it transition to \uppLoc{InGame} again, or it can receive a message that the game has ended which makes it transition to \uppLoc{Initial}.
```

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/simplified-client.png}

>     \caption{The Client template of the simplified \uppaal model.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \caption{The client template of the simplified \uppaal model.}
```

    \label{fig:sprint4-uppaal-simplified-client}
\end{figure}

\noindent

> We will now take a look at the more extensive \uppaal model and describe the templates in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The more extensive \uppaal model will now be discussed and the templates in it will be described, starting with the system declarations of the model.
```

> We will start by looking at the system declarations of the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
